# Locomotive-Wheel-Lathe-Model
.STL files for a non-working 1:48 scale model representing a belt driven locomotive wheel lathe used in the 1920’s.
Because of the complexity of the model I've broken it down into separate groups for printing.
This model was originally printed on a resin type Anycubic Photon 3D printer.
I would recommend starting with the Faceplates, then the Faceplate Housings, Base, Workstands and then the gears and smaller parts.
I used brass rod for the gear shafts and posts.  Refer to the Locomotive Wheel Lathe Complete file for appropriate sizes.
The gears are made to mesh but due to the location of the shafts I found it easier to file down the teeth on some gears to make assembly easier. The drive cogs for the faceplates required the most work but removing a small amount at a time and checking the fit made for a modification that didn't show once they were assembled.
The Faceplate Drive Housings and the Faceplates are left and right, different from each other.  The workstands are mirror images of each other and the side handwheels should face each other.
The back side of the left Faceplate has a rocker plate at center.  On the prototype this was part of a system for automatically advancing the cutting tool as the faceplate rotated.  In the "Gear" group are three rocker arms and a longer arm with a wheel on it.  The longer arm gets placed between the left Faceplate and it's Drive Housing.  This transfers the rocking motion from the rocker plate to the frame holding the rocker arms.  The rocker arms transfer this motion to the work stand control for the cutting tool.  I used 0.018" (metric?) brass rod for the three rocker arm connections and simply glued them in place rather than drilling holes in these delicate pieces.
The locomotive wheel set that gets placed between the faceplates was set for this model to be On30.  I used 0.125" brass rod for the axle.  This lathe can be set up for other gauge wheel sets by sliding the right Faceplate Drive Housing to accomodate different gauge wheels, as was done on the prototype.  Adjust the wheel set axle length for the track gauge you want to work with.
Painting and weathering are your choice.  I painted the Drive Housings and Faceplate backs a "light grey".  I colored the faceplates "metallic silver" using a Sharpies marker and this gave a fairly realistic look.  I then weathered the faceplates to resemble the ones I saw at the East Broad Top RR shops and later decided this weathered look was due to 70 years of neglect and was probably not typical of a lathe in daily use.  All the gear faces were painted with "grimy black" to resemble grease.  I painted gear shaft bushings "brass".
